### Purpose

SDOHCC Observation Screening Response (OSR) is intended to represent question-answer pairs from Social Determinants of Health (SDOH) assessment instruments. An OSR that identifies a social risk or need can be referenced as evidence for an [SDOHCC Condition]. Additionally, an OSR may be addressed by, or be the outcome of, an [SDOHCC Goal], or the reason for an [SDOHCC ServiceRequest] or [SDOHCC Procedure]. See the [Data Modeling Framework](sdoh_clinical_care_scope.html#data-modeling-framework) for more detail on the relationships between OSR and other profiles in this IG.

This IG focuses on a workflow where completed assessment instruments are captured using QuestionnaireResponse. To facilitate querying and searching, individual question-answer pairs from a QuestionnaireResponse can be converted into Observations. The decision as to which responses from a QuestionnaireResponse to convert into Observations will generally be driven by the usage need. For more information on this topic see [Representing Assessment Instrument Data in a FHIR Format](assessment_instrument_support.html#representing-assessment-instrument-data-in-a-fhir-format).

In the future, for standardized assessment instruments, a StructureMap instance would ideally be provided by a Questionnaire steward to ensure consistency in the Observations and Conditions (i.e., unconfirmed health concerns) generated from the assessment instrument. For more information on this topic, see [Using StructureMap to Generate Observations or Conditions from QuestionnaireResponse](assessment_instrument_support.html#using-structuremap-to-generate-observations-or-conditions-from-questionnaireresponse).

### Usage

Observation.code has bindings to [US Core Survey Codes]({{site.data.fhir.ver.uscore}}/ValueSet-us-core-survey-codes.html) ([required]({{site.data.fhir.path}}terminologies.html#required)) and Observation.value has bindings to [LOINCCodes]({{site.data.fhir.path}}valueset-observation-codes.html) ([preferred]({{site.data.fhir.path}}terminologies.html#preferred)). Observation.code and Observation.value also have additional bindings to SDOH domain-specific value sets (e.g., for Food Insecurity, Inadequate Housing, etc.) which are determined by the value selected for Observation.category. If Observation.category references only one value from [SDOHCC ValueSet SDOH Category](ValueSet-SDOHCC-ValueSetSDOHCategory.html) (e.g., food-insecurity), Observation.code and Observation.value **SHALL** be selected from the corresponding domain-specific value set found in Additional Bindings. If more than one value is selected from [SDOHCC ValueSet SDOH Category](ValueSet-SDOHCC-ValueSetSDOHCategory.html) (e.g., food-insecurity and financial-insecurity) for Observation.category, then Observation.code and Observation.value **SHALL** be selected from one of the corresponding domain-specific value sets found in Additional Bindings (e.g. [Food Insecurity Screening Assessments And Questions](https://vsac.nlm.nih.gov/valueset/2.16.840.1.113762.1.4.1247.194/expansion/Latest) for Observation.code and [Food Insecurity Screening Assessments Answers](https://vsac.nlm.nih.gov/valueset/2.16.840.1.113762.1.4.1247.174/expansion/Latest) for Observation.value).

Occasionally, questions that are reused across different assessment instruments are represented by the same LOINC code, but the question’s allowed answer set may vary on different assessment instruments. Therefore, the allowed answer set (for Observation.value) for a question (Observation.code) is determined by the assessment instrument. For this reason, Gravity provides Downloadable Assessment Instrument Spreadsheets that link Gravity-vetted questions to the assessment instruments from which they were chosen and their allowed answer sets. For access to the Spreadsheets and more information on this topic, see [Social Risk Terminology Value Sets](https://confluence.hl7.org/display/GRAV/Social+Risk+Terminology+Value+Sets) on the Gravity Confluence site and specifically the [Assessment Instruments Spreadsheet Guidance](https://confluence.hl7.org/display/GRAV/Social+Risk+Terminology+Value+Sets?preview=/97463504/161062739/Assessment_Instruments_Spreadsheet_Guidance_V1.pdf) document.

Of note, Gravity Project is continuously developing terminology for new SDOH domains. Sometimes a new SDOH domain may already be represented by a category code in SDOHCC ValueSet SDOH Category, but a domain-specific value set may not yet be available in VSAC. In this case, the Additional Binding for the new SDOH domain/category is the default binding for the profile element. Additionally, sometimes a domain-specific value set for a new domain is available in VSAC but does not yet include all standardized codes identified during the domain’s terminology development cycle. In this case, the value set’s “Description” tab in VSAC will state, “In progress”. If a domain-specific value set is available in VSAC but does not yet include all standardized codes identified during the domain’s terminology development cycle, the value set’s VSAC “Description” tab will state, “In progress”. Additional information related to Gravity value sets is provided on the Social Risk Terminology Value Sets page on the Gravity Project Confluence site.

Additionally, some SDOH domains may not yet be represented in [SDOHCC ValueSet SDOH Category](ValueSet-SDOHCC-ValueSetSDOHCategory.html). In this case, Observation.category: [sdoh-category-unspecified](CodeSystem-SDOHCC-CodeSystemTemporaryCodes.html#SDOHCC-CodeSystemTemporaryCodes-sdoh-category-unspecified) can be used and, if desired, category.text can also be used to further specify the domain. For example, at the time of publication of this IG, “disability-status” is not yet included in [SDOHCC ValueSet SDOH Category](ValueSet-SDOHCC-ValueSetSDOHCategory.html). In this case, Observation.category: [sdoh-category-unspecified](CodeSystem-SDOHCC-CodeSystemTemporaryCodes.html#SDOHCC-CodeSystemTemporaryCodes-sdoh-category-unspecified) can be used along with category.text: Disability Status. For Observation.category: [sdoh-category-unspecified](CodeSystem-SDOHCC-CodeSystemTemporaryCodes.html#SDOHCC-CodeSystemTemporaryCodes-sdoh-category-unspecified), there will not be domain-specific value sets and Additional Bindings for Observation.code and Observation.value will be the default bindings to [US Core Survey Codes]({{site.data.fhir.ver.uscore}}/ValueSet-us-core-survey-codes.html) ([required]({{site.data.fhir.path}}terminologies.html#required)) and [LOINCCodes]({{site.data.fhir.path}}valueset-observation-codes.html) ([preferred]({{site.data.fhir.path}}terminologies.html#preferred)) respectively.

For more information on the correlation between Observation.category and the domain-specific value sets in Additional Bindings for Observation.code and Observation.value, see [Gravity Project Value Sets](gravity_terminology.html#gravity-project-value-sets).

When Observation.category is used to tag Observations by SDOH domain (e.g., Food Insecurity, Housing Instability), Observation.interpretation: [POS]({{site.data.fhir.path}}v3/ObservationInterpretation/cs.html#v3-ObservationInterpretation-POS) (Positive) can be used to flag Observations that might represent a health-related social need (HRSN) in the specified SDOH domain(s) (see [SDOHCC Observation Response Hunger Vital Sign Question 3 Example](Observation-SDOHCC-ObservationResponseHungerVitalSignQuestion3Example.html#root)).  For more information on the use of Observation.category and Observation.interpretation and their interplay when used with OSR, see [Additional Guidance on SDOHCC Observation Screening Response Elements](assessment_instrument_support.html#additional-guidance-on-sdohcc-observation-screening-response-elements).

Observation can also reference other artifacts. For example:
* If a question-answer pair is not answered directly on an assessment instrument (e.g., when a score or value is based on other question-answer pairs), OSR can reference one or more other OSRs via Observation.derivedFrom (see SDOHCC Observation Response NHANES Question 6 Example ).
* If assessment instrument context is needed, Observations generated from a QuestionnaireResponse can reference QuestionnaireResponse via Observation.derivedFrom.
* In addition to representing instances of question-answer pairs, SDOHCC Observation Screening Response can be used as an Observation Grouping that, via Observation.member, references the OSR instances that result from a completed assessment instrument. For this reason, in addition to codes that represent questions, the value sets bound to Observation.code include codes that represent assessment instruments (LOINC panel codes). For an Observation Grouping, Observation.code **SHALL** be a LOINC panel code and Observation.member **SHALL** reference the OSR instances generated from that LOINC panel (assessment instrument). Observation Grouping is most useful when additional assessment instrument context is needed and a QuestionnaireResponse has not been created. For more information on Observation Grouping, see [Using Observation Screening Response to Group Observations](assessment_instrument_support.html#using-observation-screening-response-to-group-observations).



{% include markdown-link-references.md %}