[Previous Page - Mapping Instructions](mapping_instructions.html)

###  Terminology and Value Sets

This implementation guide is intended to support multiple SDOH domains and utilize domain specific value sets as they are created and approved by the Gravity Project.  To enable this, we are taking the following approach.

* Observations -- use LOINC codes generated by the Survey process defined in this IG.  Gravity plans to define the relevant domain specific codes in the LOINC database.

* Health Concerns (Coverage) -- use both SNOMED-CT and ICD-10 codes generated by the Survey process defined in this IG.  Gravity plans to define the relevant codes in the mapping instructions for each Survey and utilize approved SDOH values as published in VSAC.

* Goals – use LOINC codes for both domain specific Goals and for Goals that may cross domains or reflect a subset of a domain specific health concerns or problems  Gravity plans to define the relevant codes in the LOINC database.

* Interventions/Referrals (ServiceRequest, Procedure) – use a combination of terminologies (SNOMED-CT, HCPCS, CPT, LOINC) to define specific referrals and interventions that may be domain specific, cross domains or reflect a subset of a domain specific health concerns, problems, and goals. Gravity plans to define the relevant codes in a combination of LOINC profiles and VSAC value sets.



Gravity plans to work with the HL7 Vocabulary WG to determine how best to represent the domain specific value sets in each of the relevant resources and to establish appropriate methods to validate the consistent use of the correct domain specific codes.

Until a final solutions for representing SDOH domain value sets is available, the The Gravity Project will publish consesus established value sets for each of the above code systems in a supplemental guide available from the Gravity Project Confluence pages.

[Next Page - Exchange Workflow](exchange_workflow.html)